Document SDK build repair workflow (#61567)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: doc/dev/SDKBuildRepair.md

# SDK Build Repair

The SDK build repair workflow automatically attempts to repair custom-code build failures in eligible release-planner Auto SDK pull requests. It uses the shared `azsdk tsp client customized-update` engine and commits reviewable changes back to the pull request branch. It does not merge pull requests.

The workflow source is [`.github/workflows/sdk-build-repair.md`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/.github/workflows/sdk-build-repair.md). The compiled `.lock.yml` file is generated by GitHub Agentic Workflows and should not be edited directly.

## Eligibility and triggers

> The workflow only processes pull requests that:

Author: Updated this to state that only checkout, build, and repair are restricted to eligible PRs. The manual workflow may start for an ineligible PR, but its eligibility re-check stops before those operations. --generated by Copilot

- originate from this repository, not a fork;
- target `main`;
- were opened by `azure-sdk` or `azure-sdk-automation[bot]`; and
- use an `sdkauto/` head branch.

The normal trigger is the `auto-sdk-build-fix` label, which the release pipeline applies to an eligible Auto SDK pull request. A maintainer with write access can request another run by commenting:

```text
/repair-build
```

The manual path rechecks the same eligibility requirements before checking out or building pull request code.

## Enabling and disabling

> The repository Actions variable `SDK_BUILD_REPAIR_ENABLED` is the master kill switch. The workflow runs only when its value is exactly `true`.

Reviewer: The workflow's `if:` condition requires a **second** variable before any PR is processed:

```
&& contains(fromJSON(vars.SDK_BUILD_REPAIR_ALLOWED_PRS || '[]'), <pr-number>)
```

An absent or empty `SDK_BUILD_REPAIR_ALLOWED_PRS` means the workflow is dormant for every PR regardless of `SDK_BUILD_REPAIR_ENABLED`. A reader following only this doc will enable the workflow but see no runs. Suggest documenting the allowlist variable here — what it is, how to add a PR number to it, and what an empty value means.

Author: The quoted allowlist condition was temporary and was removed by `9b2a2858341`, merged to `main` as `f309c481796`. This PR is based on `83dd4db0fa2`, where both the source and compiled workflow contain no `SDK_BUILD_REPAIR_ALLOWED_PRS` reference; the current condition only requires `SDK_BUILD_REPAIR_ENABLED` plus automatic-trigger eligibility. Documenting the removed gate would make the instructions incorrect, so no doc change was made for this thread. --generated by Copilot

> The repository Actions variable `SDK_BUILD_REPAIR_ENABLED` is the master kill switch. The workflow runs only when its value is exactly `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The repository Actions variable `SDK_BUILD_REPAIR_ENABLED` is the authoritative control. The workflow runs only when its value is exactly `true`.
```

4. commits custom-code fixes and reproducibly regenerated `Generated/` files through a protected safe-output job; and
5. posts one pull request comment describing the result.

The workflow does not edit TypeSpec or other specification inputs, move the pinned commit in `tsp-location.yaml`, change repository infrastructure, or auto-merge. Failures requiring a specification or generator change are reported as out of scope.

## Authentication

The agent uses the workflow's built-in GitHub token with the `copilot-requests: write` permission. The same token is passed to the nested Copilot process used by `azsdk`. No personal access token or repository secret is required.

## Monitoring

List recent runs:

```bash
gh run list --workflow sdk-build-repair.lock.yml --limit 20
```

Watch a run:

```bash
gh run watch <run-id>
```

Inspect its jobs and logs:

```bash
gh run view <run-id>
gh run view <run-id> --log
```

Successful repairs also produce a commit on the pull request branch and an `Auto Build Repair` summary comment. Unsuccessful runs report their stop reason in the pull request comment or workflow logs.

> The workflow uses per-pull-request concurrency, so a newer run for the same pull request supersedes an older in-progress run.

Reviewer: `cancel-in-progress: true` is not set on the concurrency key, so under standard GitHub Actions semantics a newer same-concurrency run **queues** behind the in-progress one rather than cancelling it. If gh-aw overrides that default it is worth citing; otherwise suggest rewording to "queues behind" or similar.

Author: Corrected this to state that a newer run queues until the in-progress run finishes, matching the compiled workflow and standard GitHub Actions concurrency behavior. --generated by Copilot
